---
layout: post
title:  "My Summer at WRIS"
date:   2019-09-08
desc: "This blog post describes my summer and experiences at WRIS Web Services"
keywords: "blog,ios"
categories: [Other Work]
tags: [iOS]
icon: icon-iphone
---
During the summer of 2018, I worked at WRIS Web Services. I worked there part time for 10 weeks. While there, I learned about two major areas of computer science I had never previously had any experience with: mobile and web development. The company is primarily a web design contractor, but they are also responsible for maintaining multiple websites and databases. Thus, I got some exposure in the area of database management.

My primary focus during my time there was to develop an app that would help high school students find and try out for club baseball teams and facilitate communication between coaches, parents, and players, as well as serve as a more organized database of club game results. This was an ambitious task, so we started with just the team finding portion of the app.

I worked on both front end and back end design, working with both the interfaces as well as the databases and server that stored the data. I worked with another intern who was primarily responsible for developing the front end design.

During our time there we were unable to complete the whole app, however, we did complete a proof of concept of the baseball team finding portion. Our app had the following features:
- Account creation, verification, and log in for students, coaches, and parents
- Team creation for coaches with customization options
- Team search by geographic location (how close the team is) and other filters

This experience forced me to rapidly learn iOS development and backend technologies, such as hosting a server and mySQL. Additionally, this was my first major exposure to coding in a group; I had to not only use version control, but also make sure to communicate effectively if we wanted any chance of our code to work together.
